Version B2024030306 , 8 to 10 March 2024

Yesterday was Saturday, today is Sunday- but I guess science can't wait.

Github is immense help. My girlfriend is asleep while I am working at her place, on her computer. Of course, this means sporadic entries, without any research value. I chose to focus on the strcuture of the database, and I realize how it is in fact much simpler than the previous version.

The idea is to focus on the different processes and counts over which the compensation is calculated, but I am fully aware that that is not representative. It is common practice before the ECHR to rule by exclusion: focus on the applicable articles, rule on them one by one, stop when a violation is found. I am not sure whether this practice is foundational of institutional bias. I guess I have an indicator updated: total false on the contest flags means that nothing came to question, hence that the matter was not examined.

On Friday, I also managed to put together a provisional schematic of the neural network that is ECtHR decision making. The potential fallacies are already indicative. I am already in a position to write a procedural amendment suggestion draft, which I refer to in the next version of my code. But first, I need to check the conventions for neural network schematics, and make one. I wonder if it is necessary, though. We will read up on the thing and see- not a priority at the moment.

In other news, only the prototype version is operational at the moment. I guess tests will remain on hold until I build the second one.


------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Version B2024030306, 6 March 2024:

There has taken place a long hiatus, to finish drafting the research proposal
It was valuable. I am now confident to say that my beta is not representative of the judicial process. I need to proceed with restructuring the whole thing, in the utility preference manner, startring from the simulatinoss.then, I will use the simulated datasets to redo my tests and hopefully get some results. Of course, minor refinement will be required, but at the moment i am too far away from the mark.

Building the simulation will require reference to utility preference modeling techniques, with which I am not familiar with. I think it optimal to make this an iterativer process.

No point with running more tests on a faulty device. However, we do have some optimistic outcomes:
1. I have verified that descriptive statistics are as important
2. I have arrived at the need to expand the database with more information.

Until I figure out the basic structure of the model, I will focus on an effective simulation. Priority assignments:

-Simulation: 8
-Regression refinement: 4
-Case load: 4
-Exploratory analysis: 2


In other neews, I am in a good state to build the intuitive decision simulator. Initial readings produce rather baffling results, though: since the coefficients are randomized (besides a national judge factor), some iteration sequences produce extreme outlier results compared to existing quantitative research. This is encouraging: the lack of consistency could indicate the existenceo of standard slopes or of more complex networks, which sway the decision-making process in a definitive manner.

I am finding that, by making the fact of the national judge a primary consideration, and prioritizing it compared to other considerations, results present less variance and converge around the percentages found by Voeten: 97%-80,5% intuitively in favor of the state. One must bear in mind, also, that the final ruling of the judge is a balancing between their top-down intuitive assessment and their detailed legal assessment- hence, it is expected that even the current, very discouraging assessment will be too conservative compared to the actual case docket. it feels like the system already promotes certain outcomes. For the moment, though, this simulation is sufficient, and will be refined in the months to come.

With that into account, the simulated judicial intuition appears rather balanced, except for the bias in favor of the state. Results appear in a wide range, and every iteration sequence is vastly different. But already, the results seem counter-intuitive: the assumption of total randomness is the favorable one. Still, that degree of "random" is simply impossible.


---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Version B20240118, 18 January 2024:

Initial aggregations of the simulated dataset indicate similar patterns to those promised in legal theory: a normal distribution of voting patterns, with a significant, but not crucial preference for the state. The way the model is constructed, this preference may be attributed to the potential bias of the national judge towards their state of nationality.

Logistic regression outcomes are in line with those suggestions: they confirm the desired outcomes, by suggesting a slight advantage for the state due to the national judge, and no correlation with belonging on sensitive groups. Linear regression analysis on the amounts of compensation fails to demonstrate any statistically significant impact of the national judge on the amount of compensation, despite the effect of their presumed preference on the voting patterns.

However, these initial suggestions are way too simplistic to indicate the factors influencing the optimal reasoning of the judge.

Additional research indicates two other potentially crucial factors:
1. The fact that the case has been ruled as admissible leads to our sample only being populated with cases demonstrating an element of urgency, with their facts already established
2. The doctrine of the margin of appreciation suggests that the ECtHR will favor to an extent the interpretation of the law provided by the state

The new version will follow the same structure, only with an adjusted reasoning for the judges (to account for the margin of appreciation). Also, it will proceed with a presumption of the facts being relatively established in favor of the applicant- which affects the likelihood of the court accepting those facts, especially where there is no contest with the government record.



Additional references:

Brems, E., & Lavrysen, L. (2013). Procedural Justice in Human Rights Adjudication: The European Court of Human Rights. Human Rights Quarterly, 35(1), 176–200. doi:10.1353/hrq.2013.0000

Van de Heyning, C. J. (2012). The Natural “Home” of Fundamental Rights Adjudication: Constitutional Challenges to the European Court of Human Rights. Yearbook of European Law, 31(1), 128–161. doi:10.1093/yel/yes004



------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------